Add ClusterRoles and task on how to use them (#177)
kubernetes-sigs/kueue: docs/tasks/setup_rbac.md

# Manage role-based access control

This page shows you how to setup role-based acess control (RBAC) in your cluster
to control what different types of users can view and create.

The intended audience for this page are [batch administrators](/docs/tasks#batch-administrator).

## Before you begin

Make sure the following conditions are met:

- A Kubernetes cluster is running.
- The kubectl command-line tool has communication with your cluster.
- [Kueue is installed](/README.md#installation).

> This doc assumes you are already familiar with [RBAC in kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page assumes you are already familiar with [RBAC in kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).
```

## ClusterRoles included in the installation

When you install kueue, the following fine-grained ClusterRoles are created:

- kueue-clusterqueue-editor-role
- kueue-clusterqueue-viewer-role
- kueue-queue-editor-role
- kueue-queue-viewer-role
- kueue-queuedworkload-editor-role
- kueue-queuedworkload-viewer-role
- kueue-resourceflavor-editor-role
- kueue-resourceflavor-viewer-role

> And two coarse-grained ClusterRoles:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And two coarse-grained ClusterRoles are created:
```

> - `kueue-batch-admin-role` includes the permissions of all the other ClusterRoles.

Reviewer: On top of @ahg-g suggestion:
"ClusterQueues, Queues, and QueuedWorkloads"

- `kueue-batch-user-role` includes the permissions to view and edit [Jobs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/)
  and the permissions of:
  - kueue-queue-viewer-role
  - kueue-queuedworkload-viewer-role

## Giving permissions to a batch administrator

A batch administrator typically requires the `kueue-batch-admin-role` ClusterRole
for all the namespaces.

> To bind the role to a batch administrator, represented by the user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To bind the `kueue-batch-admin-role` role to a batch administrator, represented by the user
```

`admin@example.com`, create a ClusterRoleBinding with a manifest similar to the
following:

```yaml
# batch-admin-role-binding.yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: read-pods
subjects:
- kind: User
  name: admin@example.com
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: kueue-batch-admin-role
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

To create the ClusterRoleBinding, save the preceding manifest and run the
following command:

```shell
kubectl apply -f batch-admin-role-binding.yaml
```

## Giving permissions to a batch user

A batch user typically requires permissions to:
- Create and view Jobs in their namespace.
- View the queues available in their namespace.
- View the status of their [workloads](/docs/concepts/queued_workload.md) in their namespace.

> To give this permissions to a group of users `team-a@example.com` for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To give these permissions to a group of users `team-a@example.com` for the
```

Author: Done

# Manage role-based access control

This page shows you how to setup role-based acess control (RBAC) in your cluster
to control the types of users that can view and create Kueue objects.

The page is intended for a [batch administrator](/docs/tasks#batch-administrator).

## Before you begin

Make sure the following conditions are met:

- A Kubernetes cluster is running.
- The kubectl command-line tool has communication with your cluster.
- [Kueue is installed](/README.md#installation).

This page assumes you are already familiar with [RBAC in kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).

## ClusterRoles included in the installation

When you install Kueue, a set of fine-grained ClusterRoles are created, to
allow you to assign specific permissions to users. These ClusterRoles are the

> following:

Reviewer 2: ok, I thought those were the roles created for the controllers; 

We don't need mention those at all, it is simpler and more to the point if we only present the coarse-grained roles related to the two personas we have.

Reviewer 2: but if you insist on keeping it

```suggestion
When you install Kueue, the following set of fine-grained ClusterRoles are created to
allow you to assign specific permissions to users:
```

Author: Removed

- `kueue-clusterqueue-editor-role`
- `kueue-clusterqueue-viewer-role`
- `kueue-job-editor-role`
- `kueue-job-viewer-role`
- `kueue-queue-editor-role`
- `kueue-queue-viewer-role`
- `kueue-queuedworkload-editor-role`
- `kueue-queuedworkload-viewer-role`
- `kueue-resourceflavor-editor-role`
- `kueue-resourceflavor-viewer-role`

> And two coarse-grained ClusterRoles are created for the two main personas that
> we assume will interact with Kueue. These ClusterRoles are the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Moreover, the following two coarse-grained ClusterRoles are created for the two main personas that
we assume will interact with Kueue:
```

Author: Done
